.Dd June 23, 2011
.Os LINUX 2.6
.Dt PBROUTING.JSON 5 URM
.Sh NAME
pbrouting.json
.Nd
Dynr Dynamic router: Configuration
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The configuration of the dynr system is stored inside a simple json file.
If you don have this file on your system a best guese auto generated file
can be created using the pbr-setup.py script. The pbr-checkconfig.py script
can be used to check the validity of the config file.

The config file consists of two main sections, the \fBdevices\fR section and 
the \fBgateways\fR section. The gateways section contains an array of all the
gateways that are known. The devices section is itself divided into two sections,
a \fBclients\fR section and a \fBrouters\fR section. The client subsection contains
an array of devices that are to be considered to have client workstations behind
them. The routers subsection contains the device that is considered to have the
router gateways behind it.

Each device subsubsection has 4 fields defined. A \fBdevice\fR field holding the 
name of the actual networking device. Don't change this field. The field \fBip\fR
field contains the primary IP adress this interface uses while the \fBnet\fR field
defines its network range. The field \fBgroupname\fR is probably the only field
of the devices that you may want to change. Its the name used to designate the
group of clients that this interface gives access to.

Each gateway has a \fBallowedgroups\fR section that contains an array of group
names. This array is basicaly used for access control. By default, all device 
groupnames are added to all gateway allowedgroups. You may want to change this so that
different workstation networks have access to different gateways.
Each gateway also has 3 fields defined for it. Its \fBip\fR, a \fBname\fR that you will 
probably want to change from gateway<N> to something more meaningfull, and a unique 
integer \fBtableno\fR field. This field will be used directly for iproute2 and should 
remain a small unique integer.

There is a special gateway definition with the name \fBparkip\fR. You should not change 
its name, its the gateway (or more often the non existing gateway) that after a reboot
any workstation will be router via. It is sugested to let parkip point to an IP that will
never be alocated to any system.
.fi
.Sh SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBdynr-pbrouting\fR(1) \fBdynr-web\fR(1) \fBdynr-dns\fR(1)
.Sh AUTHORS
This manual page was written  by  Rob Meijer <rob@dnpa.nl>, for
the GNU/Linux Ubuntu system
