.Dd Jan 26, 2012
.Os LINUX
.Dt DYNR-PBROUTING  8 URM
.Sh NAME
dynr-pbrouting
.Nd
Dynr: Policy based routing core.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
\fB pbr-setup.py\fR

\fB pbr-checkconfig.py\fR

\fB pbr-startup.py\fR

\fB pbr-shutdown.py\fR

\fB pbr-dbus.py\fR

\fB pbr-setgateway.py\fR workstationip gatewayip

.Sh DESCRIPTION

A dynr dynamic router system is a router system that sits between a network with multiple 
internet routers and a network with multiple workstations, and allows the people working
on the workstations to pick and change lines according to their personal preferences and/or
according to the need of the moment. A dynr consists out of several subsystems, the policy 
based routing core (dynr-pbrouting), a web interface (dynr-web) and a dynamic policy based 
dns proxy (dynr-dns). 

The policy based routing core of the dynamic router provides tools and scripts for 
starting up, running and administrating the base operations of a dynamic router system.

At install, dynr-pbrouting will try to determine as much as possible about the networks
it is connected to and from this information will create a configuration file pbrouting.json
that you can change to, reflect any subtile differences with reality, to fit your personal
naming preferences for networks and gateways, or to give different choiches to different 
connected workstation networks. By default all workstation networks will be able to choose
all gateway devices.

If during install the network interfaces were not properly configured yet, it is likely the
config will not be very usefull. If this is the case, you can delete the config file and run
the pbr-setup.py tool once more.

Once you are hapy with your configuration, you should use the tool pbr-checkconfig.py to
check the full validity of your config.

At system startup, dynr-pbrouting will run two tasks. It runs the pbr-startup script in order
to preconfigure iproute2 properly as soon as the network is up. It will next to this start up
pbr-dbus, a dbus service for allowing the dynr-web subsystem of the dynamic router to change
the routing policy for any given workstation.

The dynr-pbrouting package also contains a command-line tool for manualy changing the policy
for a given workstation. The pbr-setgateway.py script allows any user in the pbrgwman group.
Please note that after adding your user to this group, you may have to restart dbus, log out 
and log in again before the dbus will allow you to use the dbus service with this tool.

.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The dynr-pbrouting package depends on a system that uses both the dbus and the upstart system.
It has been tested on ubuntu 10.4 and 11.4. If you are successfully running dynr-pbrouting on any
other distribution or version, or are having problems running it on any such system, please notify
the author.

.Sh FILES
/etc/pbrouting.json  
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.Sh SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBpbrouting.json\fR(5) \fBdynr-web\fR(8) \fBdynr-pbdns\fR(8) \fBdynr-nagios-test.py\fR(8) 
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.Sh HISTORY
This package is derived from the original (unpublished) dynrlite system.
.Sh AUTHORS
This manual page was written  by  Rob Meijer <rob@dnpa.nl>, for the GNU/Linux Ubuntu system
